Salesforce (#462)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-06-26-trino-fest-2023-salesforce.md

---
layout: post
title: "Trino Fest 2023 recap: Anomaly detection for Salesforce’s production data using Trino"
author: "Tuli Nivas, Geeta Shankar, and Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Salesforce.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Rolling into our next presentation of Trinofest 2023, we're excited to bring you

> Tuli Navas and Geeta Shankar's talk from the Performance Engineering Team of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuli Navas and Geeta Shankar's talk from the Performance Engineering Team at
```

Salesforce. They provide numerous reasons for why they need Trino and

> further continue explaining how it is essential for anomaly detection within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
further explain how it is essential for anomaly detection in
```

> their data. It's an insightful talk of how expeditious Trino can be that you definitely

Reviewer: "how expeditious Trino can be" is pretty awkward wording, and that's not the core of their talk. It's _part_ of it, but you might want to reframe this. "It's an insightful talk about using a query engine to ensure data quality, and you get to hear about how switching to Trino delivered massive performance improvements." or something along those lines reads better and is closer to the truth about the thesis of their talk.

don't want to miss.

<!--more-->

{% youtube nFuqpb2GjVI %}

## Recap

Salesforce provides customer relationship management software and applications
focused on sales, customer service, marketing automation, e-commerce, analytics,
and application development. They host hundreds of thousands of customers that

> generate millions of transactions per day. As Tuli said, "Trino has been a

Reviewer: Going straight from talking about Salesforce to "As Tuli said," is a bit of a jarring transition. I'd suggest trying to find a way to segue a little smoother, a "For a company of this size," or "They needed an analytics solution that could scale, so" or something similar would go a long way to transitioning from _company big_ to _they use Trino._

> one-stop shop for analytics". Trino allows them to do a multitude
> of things such as, querying all the data quickly and efficiently, and making it
> accessible in an optimal, easy, and timely fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one-stop shop for analytics". Trino allows them to do everything they need.
```
Let's keep it simple here, we've already made it pretty clear that quickly querying data is what Trino's all about.

Trino has helped Salesforce get more value from their production data by

> accelerating their access to it making their decision making faster and improved
> many other things. For years, they used Splunk for all their production data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accelerating their access to it, speeding up their decision making. For years,
they used Splunk for all their production data,
```
"and many other things" doesn't really mean anything - if there's more to say, we should be specific about it, otherwise, let's just end the sentence.

but after switching to Trino, they have had numerous improvements:

* Reducing their team's analytics cost
* Improving their cost-to-serve
* A 194% improvement in time it takes to run the same query

> * Provide a SLA of 20 minute latency on all production logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Providing an SLA of 20-minute latency on all production logs
```

* Can retain and access data up to 2 years compared to Splunk's 30 days
* Need fewer queries to run creating a smaller footprint

> * Able to create tables and views for temporary data storage and analytics

Reviewer: For this entire list, let's make sure each bullet point is parallel in terms of structure. Let's stick to what you've done to the first two, with a continuous tense verb at the front. So maybe "Able to create tables..." turns into "Creating tables..."

> With this, they use specific heuristics to create an anomaly detection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, they use specific heuristics to create an anomaly detection framework
```

> with a very quick response time that they are able to observe constantly. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a very quick response time that they are able to constantly observe. This
```

> also allows them to monitor customer behavior efficiently allowing them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also allows them to monitor customer behavior efficiently, allowing them
```

> to be able to respond to any necessary changes quickly. In the future, they plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to respond to any necessary changes quickly. In the future, they plan
```
Is "necessary" the right word here?

---
layout: post
title: "Trino Fest 2023 recap: Anomaly detection for Salesforce’s production data using Trino"
author: "Tuli Nivas, Geeta Shankar, and Ryan Duan"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Salesforce.png
show_pagenav: false
---

Rolling into our next presentation of [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url
2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), we're excited to bring you
Tuli Navas and Geeta Shankar's talk from the Performance Engineering Team at
Salesforce. They provide numerous reasons for why they need Trino and

> further explain how it is essential for anomaly detection within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
further explain how it is essential for anomaly detection in
```
This was a second part of one of my earlier comments.

their data. It's an insightful talk about using a query engine to ensure data

> quality and how switching to Trino has massively improved their performance. You definitely

Reviewer: You should set up a character length limit and auto-wrapping in your IDE. We keep lines to a max length of 80 characters, and every line should be as close to 80 characters without going over.

This applies to several other places as well, so please make sure you get it fixed.

don't want to miss it.

<!--more-->

{% youtube nFuqpb2GjVI %}

## Recap

Salesforce provides customer relationship management software and applications
focused on sales, customer service, marketing automation, e-commerce, analytics,
and application development. They host hundreds of thousands of customers that
generate millions of transactions per day. For a company of this size, they

> needed a query engine that is fast and efficient. As Tuli said, "Trino has been a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need a query engine that is fast and efficient. As Tuli said, "Trino has been a
```
Make sure you keep the verb tense of each paragraph consistent.

> needed a query engine that is fast and efficient. As Tuli said, "Trino has been a

Reviewer: I still feel like "As Tuli said," comes out of nowhere.

I'd say, "During the talk, Tuli made it clear how much Salesforce relies on Trino, stating, "Trino has been a one-stop shop for analytics."

> one-stop shop for analytics". Trino was the perfect solution for them as it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one-stop shop for analytics". Trino was the perfect solution for them, as it
```

allows them to do everything they need.

In addition, Trino has helped Salesforce get more value from their production data by

> accelerating their access to it causing their decision making to be quicker and improved

Reviewer: I think you missed https://github.com/trinodb/trino.io/pull/462#discussion_r1240150806

---
layout: post

> title: "Trino Fest 2023 recap: Anomaly detection for Salesforce’s production data using Trino"

Reviewer 2: Wdty .. do we really need to preface all the blog posts with "Trino Fest 2023 recap:" .. I think we can leave it out.

> author: "Tuli Nivas, Geeta Shankar, and Ryan Duan"

Reviewer 2: Please make sure we let them know about the PR in an email today @colebow and @ryandoowan  .. and give them the heads up that we will publish on Monday and also socialize then

excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-fest-2023/Salesforce.png
show_pagenav: false
---

> Rolling into our next presentation of [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rolling into our next presentation from [Trino Fest 2023]({% post_url
```

2023-06-20-trino-fest-2023-recap %}), we're excited to bring you
Tuli Navas and Geeta Shankar's talk from the Performance Engineering Team at
Salesforce. They provide numerous reasons for why they need Trino and
further explain how it is essential for anomaly detection in
their data. It's an insightful talk about using a query engine to ensure data
quality and how switching to Trino has massively improved their performance.
You definitely don't want to miss it.

<!--more-->

{% youtube nFuqpb2GjVI %}

## Recap

Salesforce provides customer relationship management software and applications
focused on sales, customer service, marketing automation, e-commerce, analytics,
and application development. They host hundreds of thousands of customers that
generate millions of transactions per day. For a company of this size, they
need a query engine that is fast and efficient. During the talk, Tuli made it
clear how much Salesforce relies on Trino, stating, "Trino has been a one-stop

> shop for analytics". Trino was the perfect solution for them, as it allows them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shop for analytics." Trino was the perfect solution for them, as it allows them
```
tiny grammar nitpick

> shop for analytics." Trino was the perfect solution for them, as it allows them

Reviewer 2: There was a mention in this talk about Trino running gnarly queries or so.. that might be a good quote to add.

> shop for analytics." Trino was the perfect solution for them, as it allows them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shop for analytics." Trino is the perfect solution for them, as it allows them
```

to do everything they need.

In addition, Trino has helped Salesforce get more value from their production
data by accelerating their access to it, speeding up their decision making.

> For years, they used Splunk for all their production data, but after switching

Reviewer 2: its not the production data .. probably the production logging data..

to Trino, they have had numerous improvements:

* Reducing their team's analytics cost
* Improving their cost-to-serve
* Improving the time it takes to run the same query by 194%
* Providing an SLA of 20-minute latency on all production logs
* Retaining and accessing data up to 2 years compared to Splunk's 30 days

> * Needing less queries to run, which creates a smaller footprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reducing the number of queries necessary, which creates a smaller footprint
```
This is probably a better way to word this
